The Stegosaurus had a brain the size of a walnut.
The Triceratops had three horns on its face: two above its eyes and one on its nose.
The Brontosaurus is now officially called Apatosaurus, but the old name is still widely used.
The Tyrannosaurus Rex had incredibly powerful jaws and teeth, capable of crushing bones.
Some dinosaurs, like the Velociraptor, were covered in feathers.
The Velociraptor was much smaller in real life than depicted in the Jurassic Park movies (about the size of a turkey).
The Argentinosaurus, one of the largest dinosaurs ever discovered, could have weighed up to 100 tons.
Paleontologists study fossils to learn about dinosaurs and other prehistoric life.
Dinosaurs lived during the Mesozoic Era, which is divided into the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous periods.
A massive asteroid impact is believed to have caused the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs about 66 million years ago.
Birds are considered to be modern-day descendants of theropod dinosaurs.
The Spinosaurus was likely semi-aquatic and had a large sail on its back.
The Ankylosaurus was heavily armored and had a club-like tail for defense.
The Parasaurolophus had a long, curved crest on its head, which may have been used for communication.
The name "dinosaur" means "terrible lizard" in Greek.
The first dinosaur fossils were recognized in the 19th century.
Fossilized dinosaur footprints, called ichnites, provide valuable information about dinosaur behavior.
The study of fossilized dinosaur eggs is called oology.
Coprolites are fossilized dinosaur dung, which can reveal what they ate.
The largest complete dinosaur skeleton ever found is a Brachiosaurus.
The Oviraptor was initially thought to be an egg thief, but it was later found to be protecting its own eggs.
The Pachycephalosaurus had a thick, domed skull, likely used for head-butting.
The Therizinosaurus had incredibly long claws, possibly used for pulling down branches or for defense.
Some dinosaurs, like the Hadrosaurs, were known as "duck-billed" dinosaurs.
The smallest known dinosaur is the bee hummingbird (which is a modern bird, and therefore a dinosaur).
Fossilized skin impressions show that some dinosaurs had scales, while others had feathers or proto-feathers.
Dinosaur bones have been found on every continent, including Antarctica.
The study of the internal structure of dinosaur bones is called bone histology.
The Baryonyx had a large claw on its thumb, likely used for catching fish.
The Compsognathus was one of the smallest known non-avian dinosaurs, about the size of a chicken.
The Iguanodon was one of the first dinosaurs to be scientifically described.
The Giganotosaurus was slightly larger than the Tyrannosaurus Rex.
Fossilized dinosaur tracks show that some dinosaurs traveled in herds.
The study of ancient environments is called paleoecology.
The "Bone Wars" were a period of intense fossil competition between paleontologists in the late 19th century.
The oldest known dinosaur fossils are from the Late Triassic period, about 230 million years ago.
The longest dinosaur is believed to be the Supersaurus, which could have reached lengths of over 100 feet.
The heaviest dinosaur is generally considered to be the Argentinosaurus.
The fastest dinosaurs were likely the Ornithomimids, which resembled ostriches.
Some herbivorous dinosaurs, like the Sauropods, swallowed stones (gastroliths) to help grind up their food.
The study of how organisms decay and become fossilized is called taphonomy.
The Utahraptor was a large, powerful raptor that lived in North America.
The Maiasaura was a "good mother lizard," known for its nesting behavior.
Fossilized feathers have preserved evidence of color patterns in some dinosaurs.
The Carnotaurus had short, stubby horns above its eyes.
Some dinosaurs had very long necks, allowing them to reach high vegetation.
The study of dinosaur growth and development is called ontogeny.
The Troodon had a relatively large brain for its body size and is considered one of the most intelligent dinosaurs.
Dinosaur fossils can be found in sedimentary rocks.
The process of preparing dinosaur fossils for study and display is called fossil preparation.